                   COMPUTER FOR CONTROL AND AUTOMATION

   Computerized   monitoring,  supervision,  and  control  of  industrial
processing  and manufacturing are expanding rapidly, according to a study
by   Creative  Strategies  Inc.  Purchases  of  computers  for  automated
applications  are  expected  to  increase  at  an annual rate of 19%, and
reach $424 million by 1976.

 Incentives
   The  high  investents  required for effective use of control computers
are  often  justified  by resultant increases in productivity. During the
1960s,  automation and economies of scale fostered productivity growth at
an  average annual rate of 4.2%. To meet increasing demands for products,
manufacturing  industries have been doubling capital expenditures for new
plants  and  equipment  every  10 years, and such spending is expected to
exceed  $35  billion in 1976. As more workers continue to shift from blue
to white collar jobs, additional automation will be required to keep pace
with expected demands.
   In  addition,  labor  costs  are  the  largest  single element in many
industries.  Output  per  man-hour  in  the private sector of the economy
increased by an average of 3% between 1960 and 1970, but compensation per
man-hour  grew  at  the yearly rate of 5.6%. The result, an average 2.58%
annual  rise  in  unit  labor cost, has been a key to the inroans made by
foreing   manufacturers.   American   industries  are  expected  to  rely
increasingly on computers to overcome these economic disadvantages.
   Further  incentives are provided by needs for product improvements and
by  pressures  expected  from  federal  laws regulating worker safety and
environmental  pollution.  Many of the new products and complex processes
require  close  tolerances  and intricate control schemes, which are only
possible using advanced automation concepts.

 Trends
   Computer  hardware  has  evolved  through several generations. Present
machines  show a clear trend toward the higher speeds, smaller sizes, and
lower  costs suitable for on-line industrial use. Applications have shown
a  corresponding  trend  from  highly  centralized direct digital control
techniques, to hierarchical or multilevel systems involving various types
and  size of interconnected computing devices. For example a programmable
controller   may   perform  several  sequencing,  logic,  and  regulatory
functions  at the process or product level; a mini-computer may supervise
several  programmable  controllers to determine an operating strategy and
provide  emergency  back-up; a large computer may oversee several smaller
machines  to  provide  overall  production  optimization;  and a business
computer  may  be  interfaced  with  the large control computer to form a
complete management information system.

 Control computer users
   Creative  Strategies  identifies the petroleum and chemical industries
as  the  major present control computer users. In 1971, the petrochemical
producers  accounted  for  approximately 28% of all such computers. These
industries are expected to increase utilization at an annual rate of 27%,
reaching  $140  million  in  1976.  The  high growth rate is due to heavy
dependence on automated equipment, caused by intensive capitalization and
rapid technological obsolescence.
   In  metals  and minerals processing, primary applications have been in
fabricating and shaping steel and aluminum. Annual purchases are expected
to increase from the current $12 million level to $35 million in 1976, an
annual  gain  of  24%. Important new applications will include continuous
casting, glass manufacturing, and pollution monitoring.
   Pulp and papermaking, food processing, textiles, and rubber production
are  also major processing industries using control computers. The demand
in  these  areas  is  expected  to  grow  from $23 million in 1971 to $41
million in 1976, an average yearly increase of 12%.
   In  the  electric utilities, need for control computers is expected to
rise  from  $30  million  in 1971 to $116 in 1976, representing an annual
growth  of  28%.  Present  generating  station  control and economic load
dispatch  applications will be supplemented by system security and remote
substation monitoring.
   Purchase  of  control  computers  for  discrete parts manufacturing is
expected  to  increase  from $37 million to $101 million between 1971 and
1976,  at  an  annual  rise  of 23%. Use will be widespread in control of
machining,  assembly,  and  testing,  as  well  as  in overall production
monitoring and optimization.

                               THE END.
