                NOISE AND HUMAN PERFORMANCE

     Effects  of  noise  or unwanted sound on human health, behavior, and
performance  are  becoming  of  increasing  practical and legal interest.
Temporary   or  permanent  hearing  loss  and  the  masking  of  auditory
information  are  clearly  harmful,  and  noise  can  also be undesirable
because  of  distruction  and  annoyance. However many studies have shown
that  noise  produces  minimal  significant  effects,  or  have indicated
improvements in performance.

 Testing
   Most  research  on  noise  and  human  performance has concentrated on
artificially  -  produced  sounds  and  psychological  tests of response,
rather  than  real  -  life  situations. For example many tests have used
slectronic  or  electromechanical  generators  to produce either tones or
white   noise,   which  cannot  be  properly  correlated  with  realistic
situations.  Other experimentation has been based on amplified recordings
of  common  noisees  such as those of factories or street traffic, but in
these there is no direct control over sound composition.

 Noise measurement
   The  standart  unit for specifying loudnes is the decibel. This equals
20 log (P/P0), where P is the sound pressure and P0 is a reference value,
normally  0.0002  microbar.  Noise  level may also be specified in dBA, a
unit  in  which  somebands  of  the  frequency  spectrum  are weighter to
equalize loudness based upon normative audiometric data.

 Hearing loss
   The  most  harmful  effects  of  noise are physiological damage to the
auditory  system  and  resultant  temporary  or  permanent  hearing loss.
Permanent  loss  is  of  major  concern  and  is  the  basis  for setting
physiological  noise  exposure  limits.  However  temporary  loss is also
important  because performance and capabilities based on auditory signals
are impaired.
   Hearing  loss  is  normally quantified in terms of an elevated hearing
threshold.  For  reasons not yet well understood, threshold increases are
greatest  at  frequencies  above  4  kHz, even when exposure amplitude is
greater for lower frequencies. In addition high frequency sounds are more
harmful  than  those  at the lower end of the auditory spectrum, and pure
tones are more damagng than broadband noise of equal dB level.
   Wide   differences   have   been  noted  among  individuals  in  their
susceptibility  to noise exposures, and some hearing loss occurs normally
as a function of age and disease. These factors and the cumulative effect
of  repeated exposure make it difficult to isolate cause of hearing loss,
without exhaustive historical data on lage populations.

 Masking
   Noise   directly   affects   human   performance  through  masking  or
interference   with   speech  or  other  desired  auditory  signals.  The
phenomenon  is  fairly  well  quantified, and considerable use is made of
masking data in designing and evaluating communication systems.
   Masking can be regarded as an elevation of the hearing threshold for a
wanted  sound.  Masking  noise  is  usually  broadband, but the effect is
greatest  from  frequencies  closest  to  that for which the threshold is
being measured. Not all frequencies are equally sensitive to masking, and
the  efect at the lowest levels, threshold increases are linear functions
of the masking noise amplitude.
   Various techniques are used for evaluating noise environments in terms
of  their  interference  with  voice  communication.  For  example in the
articulation  index,  the  audible  spectrum is divided into 20 frequency
bands.  An  average  is  computed  from the sound pressure levels of each
band,  and  the  value  is converted to an index indicating the degree of
speech intelligibility on a scale from 0 to 10.

 Performance in industry
   Various  studies  have been conducted in factories and offices to test
effects  of  noise  reduction  on  worker productivity. By any scientific
standards,  most  such  results  can  be discounted because of inadequate
control of other variables such as learning and motivation. The latter is
particularly significant, since any special attention shown to workers is
likely to provide motivation and improve work output.
   Studies  were  conducted  on  the  performance of weavers, in a normal
working  environment  with  a noise level about 96 dB. One group wore ear
plugs  on  alternate weeks, which reduced the noise level by 10 to 15 dB,
and  a  17%  gain in efficiency was found. In a similar test with matched
groups of workers, one of which wore ear plugs, a similar gain was noted.
Differences   between  the  groups  diminished  toward  the  end  of  the
experiment,  suggesting  that  some  of  the  improvement  resulted  from
increased motivation.
   Another   widely-quoted   study  involved  installing  sound-absorbing
material  in  office  areas.  Productivity of typists and clerks improved
dramatically,  but  no  control was exerted over other factors that could
have been changing.
   Opposite  results  have  also  been reported. One comparison of typing
efficiency  in quiet and noisy office showed greater speed and less waste
for  the latter condition. Unfortunately this study suffered from a small
number of subjects, and no control of other physical conditions.

 Non-auditory sensations
   Exposure  to  noise levels above 140 dB typically produces nonauditory
sensations  such  as  muscular weakness, loss of equilibrium, and nausea.
These  effects may be caused by vibrations transmitted to body tissue, as
well  as  stimulation  of  vestibular  sense  organs. The latter has been
studied  by  measuring the ability of subjects to stand and walk on rails
of  variouts  widths under exposure to broadband noise at various levels.
Differences  in balance time were not significant for 70, 80, and 120 dB.
Tests  with exposure to 100 dB at one ear and 80 dB at the other produced
some  reduction  in  balance  time,  but  these  were  not  statistically
significant.
   A  similar  study was conducted using a series of pure tones at 95 dB,
and at 75 and 95 dB. Performance was degraded slightly for the unbalanced
condition,  suggesting  some  direct  effects  of noise on the vestibular
sensory   system.   A  subsequent  study  with  the  same  stimuli  in  a
two-dimensional  postural  tracking test showed no effects on equilibrium
from  asymmetrical  noise.  Introduction  of 5-sec bursts of 70 and 90 dB
noise  while  measuring body sway suggested a possible effect from the 70
dB noise but not from the 90 dB noise.
   In  studying  exposure to aircraft noise, experimenters concluded that
the  results  were  indeterminate for tests of muscular tension, speed of
visual  accommodation, saccadic eye movements, body sway,hand steadiness,
reversible  perspective,  and  dark  adaption;  on  a  test  of  distance
judgment,   there  was  clearly  no  noise  effect.  Brightness  contrast
discrimination  under  noise  exposures  of  45 and 90 dB showed slightly
increased  threshold  differences  and  response  times  for  the  90  dB
condition. However in the range of noise amplitudes normally encountered,
effects on senses other than hearing can generally be disregarded.

 Reaction time
   Simple  reaction time tests have been conducted with a hammer striking
an  anvil  continuously and intermittently, and in the presence of 135-dB
jet engine noise. Decrements in all cases were not consistent.
   A  more  complex test involving hand and foot response also yielded no
differences for exposures to 90 and 115 dB aircraft noise. Under the same
conditions,  a  serial  reaction  test showed a speed reduction of 5.4 %.
Other  serial  reaction tests have also consistently shown decrements due
to  noise,  although  these  appeared  as  increased  errors  rather than
decreased  speed.  Similar  tests with sleep deprivation and knowledge of
results  as additional variables found increases in errors as a result of
noise,  but  these  were  inconsistent  possibly  because  subjects had a
greater degree of experience on the test.

 Vigilance
   Vigilance   tests   involve  detecting  infrequent  and  inconspicuous
signals,  usually  on  visual  displays.  Noise might be expected to keep
subjects  alert  and  thereby  improve performance. However this does not
generally  seem  to  be  the  case.  Test  conducted with broadband noise
exposures  of  70  and  100 dB showed no differences on the monitoring of
light,  but  a  30  % decrease in the number of detected signals on steam
gages  during the 100 dB exposures. Vigilance tests requiring subjects to
detect double jumps of a clock hand, with white noise exposures of 83 and
114  dB,  showed  slightly  more  signals  missed  under the higher noise
condition.   Differences  were  greatest  near  the  end  of  the  2-hour
exposures.
   Steady  and  intermittent  noise  has  also  been studied. For example
subjects  have  been  required to detect momentary deflections of cathode
ray  tube  targets  in  low,  steady,  and  variable  noise environments.
Performance  was  slightly  better with the variable noise than under the
other two conditions.

 Tracking and manipulation
   Tracking studies have been conducted in which subjects insert a stylus
in holes in a moving object, under a variety of conditions. Reductions in
performance  were  noted  as noise level increased, with more effect from
warbling than steady noises and from high than low pitch tones.
   Another  study,  including  a  coordinated  serial  pursuit test and a
high-speed  pursuit  rotor  test,  showed no effects from 115 dB aircraft
noise.  In  a  similar  experiment,  measuring azimuth tracking and range
finding,  subjects  worked for 4 hours with 120-dB noises inserted for 2-
and 3-minute periods. Result were somewhat variable, and some performance
improvements  were  even noted, apparently a result of breaking monotony.
Another  conventional compensatory persuit test and a mirror tracing test
showed  no  decrements from intermittent 1000 and 2500 Hz tones at 115 to
122 dB.
   Tests  have  been conducted in which two mutually perpendicular cranks
are  used  to  control  stylus  position  in following a moving target or
irregular  path.  One such test, with 4-hour exposures to noise levels of
70, 80, and 90 dB, showed errors which increased significantly with noise
level.  A  similar  test  involving  exposures to 135 dB jet engine noise
revealed  small decrements, in a third two-hand coordination test, noises
were  separated  into six octave bands ranging from 75 to 150 Hz and 2400
to  4800  Hz  at five levels from 37 to 100 dB. Results showed systematic
decrements  as  a  function  of  noise,  with greatest effects at highest
frequencies.
   Related tests involving eyehand coordination, with subjects exposed to
noise  up  to  90  dB,  showed  initial  decrements  in performance which
disappered  asthe  subjects  became  accustomed  to  the  noise.  A block
assembly  test has also been used, with results suggesting some decrement
during exposures to jet engine noise at 128 to 135 dB.
   Hand  tool  dexterity  tests  were conducted using white noise at 120,
130,  and  140  dB,  in  which ear protective device were used to produce
symmetrical  and  asymmetrical  reductions  from  the  ambient level. The
subjects  were  therefore  exposed  to  the  high  noise levels, although
intensity  at  the ears was reduced. Statistically significant decrements
appeared  at  130 and 140 dB, with results about the same for symmetrical
and  asymmetrical  conditions.  However  the  high  sound levels produced
noticeable  vibrations  of  small  test  parts,  and at least some of the
decrements was attributed to this phenomenon.

 Time estimation
   An   interesting  effect  of  noise  is  a  tendency  of  subjects  to
overestimate the passage of time. This effect is illustrated by a test in
which  subjects  were  asked  to press a switch after what they judged as
10-minute  intervals,  while  they  were  also  occupied  at other tasks.
Comparison  between  77,5  dB  and  111,5  dB  conditions showed that the
average  interval  judged  to  be  10 minutes was about 9 minutes for the
former  and 7 minutes for the latter condition. In a similar test with 80
and  110  dB  noise,  differences  in  time estimation lacked statistical
significance.  Finding  were  also  reported in a test in which different
noise  levels  were  presented  during  a  given  interval,  and subjects
attempted to repeat that interval. Again, the noise caused an increase in
the estimated duration.

 Intellectual functions
   Intellectual  and perceptual functions, such as those requiring mental
arithmetic, are normally considered sensitive indicators of environmental
stress.  Most  such tests have found little or no decrement due to noise.
Further,  when  decrement  was  found,  it often vanished as the subjects
became accustomed to the noise. This suggest that the mechanism of action
is through distraction rather than impairment of ability.
   In  a  typical  experiment  subjects  were  asked  to subtract 4-digit
numbers  from  6-digit  memorized  numbers,  and  record the differences.
Groups  worked  either  in  70 dB conditions on two days, or in 70 dB the
first day and 100 dB the second. No consistent effects were noted. On the
first  day, the group exposed to the 100 dB noise appeared to show slight
deterioration, but on the second day the group exposed to noise surpassed
those working at 70 dB.
   In  another  intellectual  performance  test, subjects were faced with
three  lights flashing at different rates. Each light was associated with
a  switch,  which  the subject was required to operate when the light had
flashed  a  specified  number  of  times. Performance was measured during
2-hour  sessions,  including 90-minute exposures to 111.5 dB white noise,
and  a  control  condition of 77.5 dB. A decline in performance was found
during the noise, but the effect was not statistically significant.
   Also of interest is an experiment on the effect of upward and downward
changes  in  noise level. Subjects were shown a group of ten letters, and
asked to indicate which of certain threeletter combinations were present.
During  the 1-hour sessions, some subjects were exposed to constant noise
while others experienced a shift upward from the 81 dB level. Performance
did  not  decline at higher noise levels, but changes in either direction
caused a decrement.
   A  test  of  visual  discrimination was conducted with noise levels of
120, 130, and 140 dB modified by ear protection to obtain symmetrical and
asymmetrical  stimulation.  Results  showed  increasing  errors  only for
asymmetrical  stimulation  at  the  two  highest noise levels. In another
experiment,  subjects  were  asked  to  draw lines to each of 25 randomly
located  numbers in succession under exposure to 85, 95, and 110 dB noise
levels.  This  test  showed  a considerable improvement through learning,
which  was greatest during quiet conditions. A shift from quiet to 110 dB
noise caused a small decrement in the number of patterns completed.
   A similar test also required the subject to search for certain numbers
in  a display, under conditions of quit, 70 dB bursts, and 110 dB bursts.
There  were  no  overall  differences  between  the  conditions, although
immediately  following  the  110 dB bursts the subjects frequently missed
seeing the presented target condition.

 Sonic booms
   In  addition  to  continuous  or  interrupted  audible  sounds,  other
varieties  of  noise  terms  of effects on human performance. For example
supersonic  aircraft  produce an atmospheric pressure wave or sonic boom,
which  is  of interest in relation to public acceptability of overflights
by  such  craft.  Effects  are  usually  described as startle, annoyance,
interference  with activites, and disruption of sleep or relaxation. Such
effects  are  influenced  by  the  previous  experience and foreknowledge
concerning the boom, as well as loudness.
   Aside  from  the  community  reaction studies, laboratory measurements
have  been  conducted  of human performance immediately after exposure to
simulated sonic booms. On a symbol recognition test during 30-sec periods
following  booms of 0.80, 1.42, and 2.53 lb/ft2 wavefronts, only the most
severe booms produced performance impairment.

 Sub-audible noise
   Frequencies below the audible range tend to be felt rather than heard,
and are often considered as vibration rather then noise. Possible effects
on  human  performance  have  not  been  extensively studied, most likely
because of the unavailability of suitable energy sources.
   One  preliminary  study using a variety of 1- to 100-Hz sources showed
some  results  at  high energy levels. Voluntary subjective tolerance was
reached  at  about  154  dB  for  frequencies  from  50 to 100 Hz, due to
subjective nonauditory symptoms such as nausea, giddiness, and tingling.
Most important for human performance there was a significant decrement in
visual  acuity.  Other  tests  showed  no  decrements  other than a small
reduction in speech intelligibility at high energy levels.

 Mechanisms of action
   Several  hypotheses  have  been  advanced  to clarify the influence of
noise  on  human performance. For example it is often held that noise and
variations  in  noise  distract  attention  from  primary  tasks. Such an
explanation  can  account  for the frequent finding of a decrement at the
onset   of   noise,  and  a  subsequent  return  to  normal  performance.
Distraction  can  similarly  account  for  reported  decrements following
cessation  of  noise  and for the greater susceptibility of some tests to
the  effects  of  noise.  For  example  certain  tests require particular
concentration  of  attention,  and therefore more readily show impairment
from distraction.
   An  explanation  of some noise data has been offered by analogy to eye
blinks in vision. If noise causes momentary blocks to the auditory intake
of  information,  occurrence  at  critical  times  could  cause  impaired
performance.  For  example,  on vigilance tests, external signals come at
unpredictable  times  and  could  coincide  with  auditory  blocks.  This
hypothesis  is  not  greatly different from the explanation of noise as a
distractor,  since  distractions can be considered momentary events which
cause deviations in attention.
   The  distinction between short-term and long-term memory has also been
used  to  explain  effects  of  noise.  Information  s  normally  held in
short-term memory for one or two seconds, then either transferred to more
permanent  storage  or  lost  forever.  Noise  may increase difficulty in
retaining  information  in  short-term memory. In this case, a test which
forced the subject to hold and use rapidly-changing information should be
disrupted  by  noise.  However  complex counting tasks, in which subjects
count  the flashes from each of several lamps, have not been particularly
sensitive to noise.
   None  of  these  mechanisms  explain the occasional finding that noise
improves  performance.  For  this  there  is  the  arousal  and activatin
hypothesis,  according  to  which never impulses to the midbrain activate
cortical  activity.  Such activatin is evident as increased alertness and
motivation  of  the  organism.  However  the assumption that noise has an
activating  effect  presupposes that subjects under quiet conditions were
operating at less than maximum alertness or motivation.


                               THE END.
