           Simulating on a PC,OS/2 can provide the power

    More than a million personal computers (PCs) are employed in American 
factories . As people continue to find more tasks that suit the considerable
capabilities of the PC,the importance of it having almost unlimited memory and
the ability to execute more than one task at a time grows.
    IBM and Microsoft have developed a new operating system for personal 
computers,called OS/2,that gives the PC the needed multitasking capability
and considerably more memory . However,users have not tossed DOS aside in favor
of OS/2;partly because they have invested so much in DOS-based programs,and 
partly because there have not been a lot of OS/2-based programs available-yet.
    In the past few months,several applications running on OS/2 have become 
available: Excel,Aldus,SPSS,Pagemaker,AutoCad,IBM PlantWorks, and a
manufacturing-simulation software program: Witness from Istel Inc.,Beachwood,
Ohio.
    Running on an IBM AT or compatible and written in C,Witness was developed
to take advantage of the benefits the OS/2 operating system provide. Says
Charles Murgiano the manager of Instel:"The primary reason for introducing an
OS/2-based manufacturing-simulation product is that OS/2 allows us to provide
a better and more capable software tool to our users."
    In a OS/2-based simulation program,model size is not as limited as it is 
with DOS-based programs. In order to run models quickly on a DOS-based 
simulation program,the user is limited to a model that will not take more than 
640 Kb of memory in RAM. "You can run off the hard disk,(to bypass that memory 
limit) but when you do that,it slows your execution speed down drastically,"
says Murgiano." In other application programs that run on DOS,like Lotus,or
Excel,or a word processing program,you can add additional boards of memory and 
access that memory in pages . But in simulation,that doesn't work well . The
problem is you have lots of random occurrences happening . So the software 
doesn't know what sector of memory to access . Paging through memory slows down
the execution time."
    OS/2,though,allows a program to take extended memory and access it as if 
it corresponded to RAM memory in DOS . OS/2 also accesses the hard disk more 
quickly than DOS does . Therefore,if users can tolerate some degradation in 
execution speed,after all the extended memory is used up,the program can run 
off the hard disk . From a simulation standpoint,this ability allows users to 
build manufacturing models to a size that is limited only by the number of
extended memory boards added to the PC . "Conceivably you can build a model 
that takes up to 6 or 7 Mbytes of memory," says Murgiano.
    With the ability to create larger models,users can put in almost as much 
detail in a model as needed . "Under our DOS-based simulation programs,a user 
was typically limited to a model of 125 machines and 20000 to 30000 parts,"
says Murgiano . "The user could handle these limits in several ways . For
example,with parts a user could aggregate to parts together . If you're
modeling fasteners through a process for instance,you'd model a batch of 
fasteners as one part,rather than 20000 individual fasteners . So you can make
assumptions like that to fit big plant models into 640 Kb . But there are 
still instances where you want to go bigger and OS/2 lets you do that."
    Graphics have become an important part of any simulation program . The
amount of information communicated through pictures is important in creating
and analyzing a model . But the DOS operating system does not readily support
a graphical user interface . OS/2 does through the Presentation Manager user 
interface . This interface makes it easy to use a mouse to activate commands
, pointing the cursor and clicking , and using pull-down menus . With this type 
of interface , users can concentrate on building and analyzing the model , not
on programming instructions . The model-building process is speeded up ,
helping users find answers more quickly .
    Multitasking . One of the biggest complaints about DOS has been that it 
will not execute multiple tasks simultaneously . OS/2 does permit 
multitasking . And in simulation programs , this has advantages . A programmer
can conceivably run two models simultaneously , two or more versions of a 
model , or a model and a spreadsheet program simultaneously . Multitasking
helps a model builder see statistical data from a model as it is running ,
allowing users to better analyze and manipulate the data , and see problems
as they arise . The model builder can make changes then , rather than wait 
till the model run is complete , greatly speeding the model design process .
    Says Murgiano,"Because of the multitasking capability , as well as the
support for interprocess communication of OS/2,it is theoretically possible
to pass data simultaneously from a Witness model to a spreadsheet . We hope
to make this a reality in the near future once we work out the technical 
details with Microsoft .
    OS/2 allows multiple windows from a number of different programs to be
displayed and run simultaneously on a terminal screen . It depends on the
simulation program as to what types of functions are displayed and active .
In Witness , for example , you can display the running model and several 
charts that display trending data , number of parts completed data , 
maintenance data , and so on simultaneously .
    Everyone contributes . Because of these capabilities of the OS/2
platform , Istel has been able to create a simulation program that is
totally interactive . Users can build models the way they think , in bits in
pieces , and by trial and error . No longer do programmers have to write 
code , compile it , link it ,dump in the graphics , run it , and then go
through this process again whenever they make a change . In the OS/2 version
of Witness , a user simply stops the model run , changes one or more
parameters , then tells the program to continue running . The change is
immediately incorporated into the model , speeding up the analysis process ,
and therefore getting solutions faster .
    This interactive interfacing promotes group problem solving . " And
that's where we feel the interactive , easy-to-program capability is
essential," says Murgiano ." When programmers rather than manufacturing
engineers design a model , elements are always missing . The people who
are closest to a problem are the ones to solve it , and should contribute
extensively to building the models . The people who use a program like
Witness are factory supervisors , manufacturing engineers, and industrial
engineers , not just computer programmers . Some of our more progressive
customers even have their operators use simulation to work what-if
questions on the factory model on a PC in the factory ."
    With the multitasking , interactive features offered by OS/2 , a
simulation program can be used for day-to-day or week-to-week planning 
because users get information within hours instead of weeks or months .
Capacity planning , line balancing , capital equipment justification , and
production scheduling are just some of the applications an interactive
simulation program can handle .
    With such benefits to using OS/2 , will OS/2 replace DOS in the
factory ? " We don't expect it ," says Murgiano . " There's enough of a
DOS-based world out there , that if it happens at all , it won't be soon .
We expect to see DOS , OS/2 , and Unix operating systems in the factory .
However , in certain applications , such as simulation , we expect OS/2 to
have a significant impact in the next year or two ."
    So as simulation vendors take advantage of powerful operating systems
and computer hardware developments , mainframes and other larger computers
are no longer needed to satisfactorily model a plant or process . Simulation
models on a PC can be just as accurate and valid as simulation models on
larger computers . It is important that solid statistical analysis be done ,
regardless of the computing power used . But as computer vendors continue
to improve the capacity , speed , and capabilities of personal computers ,
simulation becomes more affordable and faster . The question of whether to
simulate is very much becoming a question of " Why not ?"

                Develop application programs in 120 days

    Despite the promise of various fourth-generation languages , application
programs still cannot be automatically created . Particularly , these
programs cannot be automatically created in a specific amount of time .
But a team of engineers and manufacturing personnel at DuPont found a way of
developing application programs quickly , typically in as little as 120
days . Their secret : marrying a fourth-generation tool to a rapid-prototype
methodology .
    The employees at the DuPont Kevlar facility in Richmond , Va.,were among
the first to use this metod . The goal was to develop programs that would
collect more , and more accurate information on the production and quality
of the KevlarSM industrial fiber more rapidly then previous methods , and
distribute the collected data electronically .
    KevlarSM is used in hundreds of products . It can be woven into a
fabric , braided into a rope , or used outright as textile reinforcement .
It is used in helmets , bulletproof vests , ski poles , as a replacement for
asbestos in train brakes , and even in space shuttles . Changing the
weight , thickness , or finish ,changes this fiber's properties . The
problem for management was to keep track of all these changes in order to
ensure quality and proper shipment to customers .
    Making KevlarSM involves mixing polymer and solution in a proprietary
process . In the next phase , spinning , the solution becomes yarn and is
thereafter referred to as the parent bobbin . The parent then goes through
a finishing operation where changes are made to the yarn to meet required
customer specifications . The finished yarn is wound onto one or more
bobbins which are known as children . Depending on the product specified ,
the children can be recombined onto one or more bobbins and are called
grandchildren . The bobbins are then packed into cartons , weighed , and
shipped to a warehouse for distribution to customers .
    " We need and want to know everything that happens in the manufacturing
process ," says Stan Weaver , Senior Research Engineer ." That includes who
doffed it ( took the bobbins off the spinning machine ), dates and times of
various operations , properties that were run on the bobbin , all its
children and grandchildren  , and so on ."
    But no off-the-shelf program existed that could collect all these data .
And estimates on how long it would take to develop an application program
that met these complex needs were coming in at 2 1/2 years . Far too long
to wait . Thus , another way had to be found to get the application software
needed .
    Tom Musselman , Techinal Group Manager , began the project of finding or
developing application software for the KevlarSM Manufacturing Information
System (KMIS). He assembled a team consisting of programmer-analysts and
users . Weaver and Tom Claytor , Manager , Resources , were with the project
from the beginning . The programmer-analysts , though , changed frequently
throughout the project . Changing programmers on any project usually causes
delays , but that didn't happen here because of the software development
package selected .
    Rapid prototyping . After evaluating various application-development
tools , the team chose CorVision , from Cortex Co., Boston , a fourth-
generation , application-development package .
    According to Claytor and Weaver , one of the biggest benefits of
CorVision is that it makes rapid prototyping of application software
feasible . Commands and keystrokes remain consistent with a user throughout
the programs . The tool also eases program maintenance because it has
self-documenting features and a consistent programming code , and keeps all
programs in a database for referenñe . This tool lets programmers design
and build screens and reports , define data , and test and implement code .
It frees programmers from solving programming problems so they can
concentrate on creating solutions .
    Because of CorVision , the team could develop a prototype of an
application program in about four weeks . And because of the rapid-prototype
methodology , the final version of that application program can be delivered
in three to four monts .
    RIPP . The Information Engineering Associates (IEA) unit of DuPont
developed this rapid-prototype methodology , formally called Rapid Iterative
Production Prototyping (RIPP). The first step is for the programmers and
users to analyze and determine a reasonable first-solution approximation .
The programming team then develops a prototype is given to the users to
evaluate . During this stage , users can suggest changes to the user
interface , ask for additional features that have since been determined as
necessary , and make other modifications . Changes are implemented in a
couple of weeks and sent back to the users for more evaluation . This
iterative evaluation cycle is what helped get accurate , functional
application software to the operators at the Kevlar facility within four
month instead of the 25 or more months it would take using other development
methodologies .
    Important benefits results from this method because of user
involvement . It is the end-users expertise of the process that is used to
etermine what functions and interfaces are needed in the program to get the
data . The end users also evaluate the prototypes in terms of functionally
and user interface . Thus , they become supportive of the programs and
training is practically eliminated .
    According to Scott Shultz , founder ,IEA, this metod of application
development also addresses some common problems with getting software
programs delivered right and on time .
    Long-term commitments in software usually do not work because people ,
ideas , and situations change fadter that the software can .
    Frequently , users know what their problem is , but they do not know how
to define a complete solution on the first try .
    People also tend to believe that they are going to get only one chance
to ask for what they want , so they ask for as much as they can . These
exploding requirements result in delaysand usually the failure or the
project .
    The best way to solve these problems is through an iterative ,
evolutionary application-development process .
    Custom success . There are now eight interconnected application
programs , that comprise the KMIS system . The system hardware consists of
two VAX 8650 computers and one VAX 8810 . There are 60 to 70 operators using
the KMIS system at any time , and it handles about 16,000 transactions/day .
Within one year , from January 1986 to January 1987 , 50% of this system was
up and running on the factory floor ; considering the system's complexity ,
the speed of implementation is impressive . A few of the modules are as
follows .
    The Standard Operating Conditions (SOCs) module specifies machine
setting required to produce a certain product .
    The Spinning module handles data on the creation of bobbins and machine
downtime , and interfaces to vision-inspection systems to detect and log
possible bobbin defects .
    The Packing moduke collects data for checks on product quality and
size . Cases are weighed electronically to obtain the weight , and a
bar-code finished-product label is printed .
    The Product Separation module keeps track of product separated when
tests on random samples indicate that specifications are out of limits , or
process upsets are detected upstream . This module manages the segregation
and ultimate release of " suspect " product .
    The tracking module manages the location of bobbins , buggies , and
cartons .

