                Cost Estimating In The Computer Age.

  The need for accurate standarda on existing product lines and accurate
costs on customer specials, new products, and engineering changes prompted
Conair Franklin's cost estimating department to seek a computer solution.
Today, three years after acquiring a PC-based computer-aided cost estimating
(CACE) system, estimators at the 300 employee Franklin, Pa. plant agree the
system is providing accurate estimates from which quality management
decisions can be made.
  Conair Franklin is one of 12 firms comprising the Conair Group, a leading
maker of auxiliary machinery for the plastics industry. The company
manufacturers five different product lines, ranging in value from $1000 for
a piece of handling equipment to over $100000 for a complete material
handling and conditioning system. Manufacturing at Conair includes extensive
sheet metal fabrication, machining,electrical subassembly, final assembly,
and erecting storage silos.
  A Costimator 2 CACE System from Manufacturers Technologies,Inc., W.
Springfield, Mass. was initially purchased to help Franklin create over 7000
routings for standard fabrications, machinings, electrical subassemblies,
and specialty parts such as filters and gaskets. The system reduced
development time by two-thirds.
  For example, it was estimated that, using conventional means, it would
take six man years to complete all necessary routings in just the electrical
subassembly department. Using MOST (Maynard Operation Sequence Technique),
however, Franklin was able to construct a special electrical subassembly
database within the CACE software. The necessary routings were completed in
seven man month, and the resulting cost saving more then paid for the
system.
  Working with CACE. Written in C, the Costimator 2 CACE System runs on IBM
XT, AT, and PS/2 computers and true compatibles. It operates with a sonic
digitizer, an electronic device that measures part dimånsions and tool
travel as a special pen is traced over a part drawing or model.
  The system comes with sections on tooling (speeds, feeds, etc.), D.O.D.
labor standards (to aid in compliance with M.S. 1567A) and materials. The
software offers a great deal of flexibility. Each section was tailored to
Conair's factory environment when they were trained to used the system.
Consequently, users can easily edit the software without doing any
programming.
  Users are prompted to choose needed material, tooling, operations, and
standards from a menu. The program also prompts the user to enter necessary
part dimensions and tool travel data. If this information is alredy known,
it may be typed into the estimate. If these values are not known, the sonic
digitizer will determine distance. The digitizer's pen emits sound waves as
it is traced on a drawing or part. Two microphones help to traingulate the
pen's coordinates as it moves, which provides data that the software uses to
determine real distance.
  As the user builds a part estimate, the CACE software creates a process
plan and routing. Speeds, feeds, number of pieces, material, and other
variables within a complated estimate or report may be changed. The program
instantly adjusts any values within the document that are affected by the
changes.
  For document storage and system backup, Conair uses a 20 Mb Bernoulli
cartridge, which may be used interactively with their 40 Mb hard drive.
  In estimating a job that resembles a project already completed, estimators
save time by copying the finished estimate and adapting it to reflect the
requirements of the new job. A separate section of precalculated labor
standards (or parametric time elements) takes time savings a step further by
enabling Conair to estimate many total job times almost as fast as they can
select a pert's features.
  CIM capabilities are enhanced by utility programs that enable Conair to
convert process plans and routing into an ASCII format, which are then
forwarded to Conair's mainframe MRP II database. This electronic transfer of
data saves a lot of data entry time.
  Other benefits were discovered as Conair became more familiary with the
software:
  Prior to obtaining CACE, labor standards were based on the estimates of
department foremen responsible for a part's manufacture. These
"guesstimates" were often a function of how well that department was
operating on that particular day. Estimated times could vary from actual
times by up to 50%. Conair found that computer-aided estimates are
consistently within 5% of actual manufacturing times.
  Using CACE, Conair is able to fully utilize their machining capacity. By
making printed speed and feed information available to their machine
operators and NC programmers, Conair has experienced a 15% improvement in
their manufacturing capacity.
  By coferring with Conair manufacturing standards analysts and studying
CACE reports, R&D engineering people can quicly determine which of several
possible product designs is most cost effective before a product goes into
production. Prior to using CACE methods, any excessive new-product costs
were rectified by extensive revision after the product's release. Proposed
engineering changes may also be accurately analyzed through CACE to
determine what their true cost (and potential savings) will be.
  Analysing make-buy options with CACE helps Conair to easily determine
whether they should make a part in-house, or farm it out to a vendor who can
make the part more economically.
  Basic requirements for a Conair Manufacturing Standards Analysts include:
  Training on the CACE system, provide by the vendor.
  Basic estimating experience, including Maynard Operation Sequence
Technique.
  Familiarity with the company's manufacturing processes.
  Once these requirements have been met, estimates produced are accurate and
consistent, regardless of who does them.
  Whether the Costimator 2 System is used to create standard production
routers, to estimate the viability of a new product design, or to propose an
engineering change, we are confident the resulting documentation will be
accurate. This confidence should be added near the top of the CACE benefits.
Without it, an estimator often second guesses himself, questions the
accuracy of his work, and stops to reconsider key operations. With it, the
estimator can proceed rapidly from one project to the next, certain that his
time and cost calculations are realistic.

                           THE   END .
